.TH lxqt-wayland-session "1" "January 2025" "LXQt 2.1.0" "LXQt Session Module"
.SH NAME
\fBlxqt-wayland-session\fR \- Wayland session for \fBLXQt\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This module provides the files needed for the Wayland session of the \fBLXQt\fR desktop
environment and enables the Wayland settings page in \fBlxqt-config-session\fR.
.SH FILES
\fBstartlxqtwayland\fR: Script which starts the compositor and sets the keyboard layout.
.P
Desktop entry file stating \fBstartlxqtwayland\fR as binary needed to start LXQt Wayland
sessions.
Sourced e. g. by display managers.
.P
Basic configuration files for supported compositors where needed: Hyprland, kwin_wayland,
labwc, niri, river, sway, wayfire.
.SH UNSUPPORTED COMPOSITORS
Any compositor can be launched by \fBstartlxqtwayland\fR but for starting and exiting
the LXQt session a line \fBlxqt-session && <exit_compositor_command>\fR has to be added to
its autostart configuration.
.SH NOTES
Some lxqt-configuration tools currently do not support Wayland and those settings have to
be configured in the compositor's configuration:
.P
* lxqt-globalkeys
.P
* lxqt-config-monitor (though kwin_wayland is mostly supported)
.P
* lxqt-config-input
.P
Limitations in lxqt-panel:
.P
* Workspace support in lxqt-panel's taskbar plugin is supported
only in kwin_wayland.
.P
* Showdesktop plugin and  workspace switcher ar currently supported only in kwin_wayland.
.P
* kbindicator and qeyes plugin are currently not supported under Wayland.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt-wayland-session/issues
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR startlxqtwayland(1)
.BR lxqt-session(1)
.BR lxqt-config-session(1)
.BR lxqt-config(1)
.BR lxqt-leave(1)
